- [Instructor] Part of the operational power of spring boot,
comes from the various ways that you can change
the configuration, of an application,
either during runtime or during startup.
Now, there are many ways to configure properties,
for a spring application.
And there are rules around precedents,
but we'll talk about that in a couple of minutes.
The application.properties file,
or the application.yaml file,
provide very basic configuration.
And in my opinion, these two locations are good,
really only for development and demo purposes,
because in reality,
the types of configurations that you're going to put,
into a spring application,
are going to have so much variance,
based on the data center,
or the environment that you're running it.
And while the yaml file gives you a little bit
more control,
both of them are really development focused in my opinion.
Environment variables are very common,
especially for modifying the profiles that will be loaded.
And we're going to get into those profiles in the next video.
But this is a way to modify the runtime environment,
to give a specific configuration properties,
for that environment itself.
These are very common bare metal and Kubernetes deployments.
Similar to the environment variables.
You can also inject at the command line,
different properties in your spring application.
Now while this is a less common method than using runtime
environment variables,
they do offer some value when you may have two
or three applications running in the same environment.
But serving very different functions.
The most common way to modify properties, of a spring boot
application is through cloud configurations.
Through the use of things like config, server or console,
you can change the configurations for an entire cloud
native based application suite,
instead of just a single application.
That's really where the power
of cloud configuration comes from.
If you're unfamiliar with cloud configuration,
or you'd like to dig more deep into this topic,
check out my course, Spring, Spring, Cloud,
for more information on leveraging the config server,
to inject configuration, from a server,
as opposed to through environment
or through something checked in, to source control,
like an application.properties file.
Another way to modify the configuration
of a spring application,
is through the beans that are actually defined
as part of the application context.
Much like properties.
There are several ways to add beans
to a spring or spring boot application.
Adding beans to the default application class,
is a simple and great way to get started with configuration.
This class can get unruly however,
so often, I like to break things up.
You can also add beans to separate configuration classes,
as I was alluding to.
And there's a couple of different ways to get those loaded
into the application context.
You can rely on component scanning,
or you can define those configuration classes
as something to import.
You can also use XML-based configuration files.
Now, if you're using XML-based configuration files
for legacy application usage, great, continue doing that,
because there's really not much need,
to rewrite all of those applications that are legacy.
If however, you find yourself writing a new XML file,
to get configurations into your spring applications,
I would stop what you're doing, rethink your decisions,
and take a little bit deeper look,
into Java based configuration,
or component scan based configurations.
And that indeed is the next way to get your beans,
into your application.
And by default, any component or stereotype, of component,
that is found in a sub package, of the package containing,
the default application class,
for a spring boot application, will be component scanned,
unless you tell it not to.
Now, of course you can do a mixture of any
or all of these that you want.
And that's what spring allows you to do.
Take and mix and match whatever
you need to make your application run.
So let's return to the application that we created a couple
of videos ago.
And let's make up a simple modification
to the configuration itself.
I want you to open up the application.properties file,
and source main resources.
And we're going to put a very simple property.
We're going to type in, server.port.
And the default is 8080.
We're going to set it to 8,000.
And with that, we'll start up our application.
And I'm just running it through my IDE,
by essentially running the main method.
I have a run configuration built.
You can do the same in your ID,
or you can run it from the command line,
whichever you find more comfortable.
You will see in this case on the second to the last message,
the Tomcat, this time has started at 8,000 instead of 8080.
So let's jump to a web browser, and let's refresh,
on 8080, and you'll see that the site cannot be reached.
Instead let's change this to 8,000,
and there's our webpage served.
So with that simple property change,
we changed the way Tomcat itself operates.
And we'll talk more about how to configure Tomcat later.
But this is the value of properties,
and you can inject those properties,
based on different priorities
depending on your use case.
So an environment variable will always beat,
the property to find an application properties for instance.
These are very well-defined in the spring documentation,
and I encourage you to take a look at those,
as you're moving an application into production.